CDCP_cti.md

>Goodcorp’s existing branch “Good-Energy” that brokers business between the US Government and large energy distribution organizations went through a data breach last weekend. A number of forensic artifacts were recovered since then with some initial analysis performed by Goodcorp’s IR team. You’ve been tasked to continue where they left off. You are to perform research on the following information preparing a Threat Intelligence Report on what happened to the best of your ability. Observe the following recovered IOCs and starting intelligence below. Compile what you find in your research into the deliverables asked for further below


APT33 has targeted organizations – spanning multiple industries – headquartered in the United States

APT33 engages in strategic espionage by targeting geographically diverse organizations across multiple industries. Specifically, the targeting of organizations in the aerospace and energy sectors indicates that the threat group is likely in search of strategic intelligence capable of benefitting a government or military sponsor.

targeting of multiple holding companies and organizations in the energy sectors align with Iranian national priorities for growth, especially as it relates to increasing petrochemical production

APT33’s use of multiple custom backdoors suggests that they have access to some of their own development resources, with which they can support their operations, while also making use of publicly available tools. The ties to SHAPESHIFT may suggest that APT33 engages in destructive operations or that they share tools or a developer with another Iran-based threat group that conducts destructive operations.

DROPSHOT Dropper that has been observed dropping and launching the TURNEDUP backdoor, as well as the SHAPESHIFT wiper malware

Some of these U.S. organizations may have been targeted by Elfin for the purpose of mounting supply chain attacks. In one instance, a large U.S. company was attacked in the same month a Middle Eastern company it co-owns was also compromised.

US entities account for [34%] of their attack targets



> [henry.case@goodcorp.local] received an email from [solevisible@gmail.com] with personalized job ads though he NEVER clicked on anything in it

- HELIX KITTEN actors have shown an affinity for creating thoroughly researched and structured spear-phishing messages relevant to the interests of targeted personnel. 

- More recently, in May 2017, APT33 appeared to target a Saudi organization and a South Korean business conglomerate using a malicious file that attempted to entice victims with job vacancies for a Saudi Arabian petrochemical company.

- APT33 used a built-in phishing module within the publicly available ALFA TEaM Shell (aka ALFASHELL) to send hundreds of spear phishing emails to targeted individuals in 2016. Many of the phishing emails appeared legitimate – they referenced a specific job opportunity and salary, provided a link to the spoofed company’s employment website, and even included the spoofed company’s Equal Opportunity hiring statement. However, in a few cases, APT33 operators left in the default values of the shell’s phishing module. These appear to be mistakes, as minutes after sending the emails with the default values, APT33 sent emails to the same recipients with the default values removed.

As shown in Figure 3, the “fake mail” phishing module in the ALFA Shell contains default values, including the sender email address (solevisible@gmail[.]com), subject line (“your site hacked by me”), and email body (“Hi Dear Admin”). [https://www.mandiant.com/resources/blog/apt33-insights-into-iranian-cyber-espionage]

-


> [Henry’s_PC] now has a scheduled task of [GoogleUpdateschecker.vbs]

> Several emails were sent to [jake.armitage@goodcorp.local] from [solevisible@gmail.com] with nonsensical text all with [malicious.rtf_files_attached] of which Jake opened one of the attachments. (Jake’s system is still[on_Windows_7_running_an_unpatched_version_of_Office_2007] due to some Excel legacy dependencies he needs for his job that in-house developers are having trouble trying to migrate)

            During the summer of 2018, HELIX KITTEN actors were observed targeting entities in the Middle East — of note, targets appeared to be located in Bahrain and Kuwait. These incidents involved spear-phishing attacks, which characteristic of HELIX KITTEN, included emails containing malicious PowerShell in their macros that connects to known C2 infrastructure.



> Network traffic recorded to unusual sites [ngaaksa.ddns.net] and [ngaaksa.sytes.net] from [several_PCs]



>Domain Masquerading

APT33 registered multiple domains that masquerade as Saudi Arabian aviation companies and Western organizations that together have partnerships to provide training, maintenance and support for Saudi’s military and commercial fleet. Based on observed targeting patterns, APT33 likely used these domains in spear phishing emails to target victim organizations.    

The following domains masquerade as these organizations: Boeing, Alsalam Aircraft Company, Northrop Grumman Aviation Arabia (NGAAKSA), and Vinnell Arabia.

ngaaksa.ddns[.]net
ngaaksa.sytes[.]net



> A lot of traffic [over_the_weekend_only]

> Two computers (that Henry and Jake do not use) were observed to have their [main_partitions_wiped]

T1487 Disk Structure Wipe



> [Username] artifact recovered on a pc of [Xman_1365_x]

We identified APT33 malware tied to an Iranian persona who may have been employed by the Iranian government to conduct cyber threat activity against its adversaries.

We assess an actor using the handle “xman_1365_x” may have been involved in the development and potential use of APT33’s TURNEDUP backdoor due to the inclusion of the handle in the processing-debugging (PDB) paths of many of TURNEDUP samples. An example can be seen in Figure 5.

“xman_1365_x" PDB String in TURNEDUP Sample
Figure 5: “xman_1365_x" PDB String in TURNEDUP Sample
Xman_1365_x was also a community manager in the Barnamenevis Iranian programming and software engineering forum, and registered accounts in the well-known Iranian Shabgard and Ashiyane forums, though we did not find evidence to suggest that this actor was ever a formal member of the Shabgard or Ashiyane hacktivist groups.

> Another user’s computer had many instances of [certutil] executed and a [zip_file] in their user directory named [POWER_GEN_2012.zip]

In a recent wave of attacks during February 2019, Elfin attempted to exploit a known vulnerability (CVE-2018-20250) in WinRAR, the widely used file archiving and compression utility capable of creating self-extracting archive files. The exploit was used against one target in the chemical sector in Saudi Arabia. If successfully exploited on an unpatched computer, the vulnerability could permit an attacker to install any file on the computer, which effectively permits code execution on the targeted computer.

Although the files that APT1 actors attach or link to spear phishing emails are not always in ZIP format, this is the predominant trend we have observed in the last several years. Below is a sampling of file names that APT1 has used with their malicious ZIP files:


 
> Risk Assesment

- What is the business risk here based on the IOCs?
- Why was Goodcorp targeted?
- What was the overall impact?
- is Goodcorp expected to be a target in the future?


> Attack Narrative

- Put together the IOCs into a plausible narrative and describe how this attack happened. Use your best judgment.
> Some of the information recovered suggests certain attacks took place during certain phases of the attack lifecycle.

> password spray an organization to obtain a few Office365 accounts
> vbscript
> powershell
> payload delivery
> enumerating user accounts and machines for additional compromise
>





> Tactics, Techniques & Protocols

- Categorized lists of TTPs.
    Categorize them chronologically.

> Remediations

- Determine if certain websites or attachment types (ex: .scr, .exe, .pif, .cpl, etc.) that can be used for phishing are necessary for business operations and consider blocking access if activity cannot be monitored well or if it poses a significant risk.

- Use anti-spoofing and email authentication mechanisms to filter messages based on validity checks of the sender domain (using SPF) and integrity of messages (using DKIM). Enabling these mechanisms within an organization (through policies such as DMARC) may enable recipients (intra-org and cross domain) to perform similar message filtering and validation.

- Monitor for newly constructed files from a phishing messages to gain access to victim systems.

- Monitor network data for uncommon data flows. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious.

- Monitor for contextual data about a malicious payload, such as compilation times, file hashes, as well as watermarks or other identifiable configuration information. In some cases, malware repositories can also be used to identify features of tool use associated with an adversary, such as watermarks in Cobalt Strike payloads.[91]Much of this activity will take place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection of this behavior difficult. Detection efforts may be focused on post-compromise phases of the adversary lifecycle.

- 

- Set account lockout policies after a certain number of failed login attempts to prevent passwords from being guessed. Too strict a policy may create a denial of service condition and render environments un-usable, with all accounts used in the brute force being locked-out.

- Use multi-factor authentication. Where possible, also enable multi-factor authentication on externally facing services.

- When processing requests to establish and change memorized secrets, verifiers SHALL compare the prospective secrets against a list that contains values known to be commonly-used, expected, or compromised. For example, the list MAY include, but is not limited to:

- Verifiers SHOULD permit claimants to use “paste” functionality when entering a memorized secret. This facilitates the use of password managers, which are widely used and in many cases increase the likelihood that users will choose stronger memorized secrets.

- Use application control where appropriate. VBA macros obtained from the Internet, based on the file's Mark of the Web (MOTW) attribute, may be blocked from executing in Office applications (ex: Access, Excel, PowerPoint, Visio, and Word) by default starting in Windows Version 2203.

- Script blocking extensions can help prevent the execution of scripts and HTA files that may commonly be used during the exploitation process. For malicious code served up through ads, adblockers can help prevent that code from executing in the first place.

- By default, only administrators are allowed to connect remotely using WMI; restrict other users that are allowed to connect, or disallow all users from connecting remotely to WMI.

- 

>Passwords obtained from previous breach corpuses.
>Dictionary words.
>Repetitive or sequential characters (e.g. ‘aaaaaa’, ‘1234abcd’).
>Context-specific words, such as the name of the service, the username, and derivatives thereof.




>  ATT&CK Navigator Attachment

[https://mitre-attack.github.io/attack-navigator/]

- Complete an ATT&CK Navigator of all threat actor activity identified with layers to demonstrate what needs to be focused on. Reminder, the tool can be found here:


\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

> CVE-2017-11882 [Microsoft_Office_Memory_Corruption]
> CVE-2017-0199  [Microsoft_Office/WordPad_Remote_Code_Execution_Vulnerability_w/Windows_API]  


[https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2017-0199]

[https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2017-11882?ref=cisco-talos-blog]

- Microsoft issued a patch for CVE-2017-11882 on Nov. 14, 2017

- 

> CWE-119 [buffer_overflow] 

[https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/119.html]


- allow an attacker to run arbitrary code in the context of the current user by failing to properly handle objects in memory, aka "Microsoft Office Memory Corruption Vulnerability". This CVE ID is unique from CVE-2017-11884. [affects_office_2007_sp3]

Base Severity Score: [7.8_HIGH] used to be a [9.3] under CVSS 2.0



