CDCP_email.md

I doubt a passwrod reset would go to a bitly link 

															<p><a class="btn btn-ghost" href="https://bit.ly/3ltKRHT" style="display: inline-block; padding: 10px 20px; border: 2px solid #ffffff; border-radius: 3px; font-weight: bold; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none; line-height: 18px; color: #ffffff; background: #0077cc;" target="_blank">Reset Password</a></p>








ensure macros are enabled lol

v=1; a=rsa-sha256; c=relaxed/relaxed; d=gmail.com; s=20210112; h=from:mime-version:date:message-id:subject:to :content-transfer-encoding; bh=skjTcecwQ8qBMuphJXJsJYoVinN5dq/n/TqmbSgdUYI=; b=irf+xUOPNKxU5wZMtrl3NVlD/vJ4hJYUVL7wO6d+NQKFzp+exdSX+kCigaoSaP1SHK uyKSEuup7gzvd9YNOHqiDboD7NnfzqN6y+slxERMA3wwRYOJhlnYs4sgBEM2+iZPES/h EEaTcspAjASXaQjuVEzrOFq2J8UDvbdwIfL2jk8iOVBZJzaFO2zp2hayto6l7I1p5uaD ycbMWH3KnmwmlDBJIh1/bYQdeO9A1uwXp3Bwq4t44OUMJjvY3jCpCpTw6HH0VGqV0TIM FIz3xWc7UYtVj/SNdaZaZ8zHuoRlxvQMg/SKw0o1D7jNxlnQDKvfjH+Odjxzbl49P41+ cdtA==


emial appears to be a email from Goodcorp IT to a user in the network who needs to reset their password to regaina ccess to elastic search at first glance 



DKIM body hash does not verify 

A failed DKIM body hash can indicate that the message body has been altered after it was signed with DKIM.



this could also just be formatting that is added by an intermediary email server like gmail.com






X-SID-PRA: ITGOODCORP@GMAIL.COM

X-Original-From: goodcorpIT@goodcorp.com


If the intermediary server makes only legitimate and authorized changes to the message, such as adding a new header field or modifying the message in some other way that does not affect the DKIM signature, then the DKIM hash check will still pass.

However, if the intermediary server makes unauthorized or illegitimate changes to the message, such as modifying the message body or header fields in a way that affects the DKIM signature, then the DKIM hash check will fail.

Phishing: An attacker sends an email to the recipient, posing as a trusted entity, and includes a link to a fake website that looks legitimate. When the recipient enters their login credentials on the fake website, the attacker can intercept and modify any subsequent email messages.

it is possible for an email to pass all the authentication checks, such as SPF, DKIM, and DMARC, and still be malicious. These checks are designed to verify the authenticity of the email and ensure that it is not tampered with or spoofed in transit. However, these checks do not guarantee the content of the email is safe or not malicious.

pretty clearly targeted ata mobile user which is odd since it runs powershell scripts


> clicking the reset button links to https://bit.ly/3ltKRHT or https://tueoeoslxo.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/elastic.html

This attack is especially dangerous for users on the network who are less tech savvy, as I belive this could be so that people load this weird ass site not knowing any better, the login will keep failing, showing them scary code thats yelling at them, which in turn would prompt them to return to the email and download the password recovery tool, which is where the actual compromise takes place. 


> clicking the button to recieve updated security documentation forwards the user to https://ibarblkacoiwlkese.s3.amazonaws.com/Security-Docs.hta


> if a user tries to install the password reset tool (lol) it links them here https://ibarblkacoiwlkese.s3.amazonaws.com/Password-Recovery.ps1


> if a user tries to unsubscribe the user is directed to https://tueoeoslxo.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/elastic.html 

> clicking on trademarks redirects to bitly link

> clicking on terms redirects to bitly link














Litmus code included for tracking user interaction 



> https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1003/
> https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0002/

 Over the weekend, a user from Goodcorp reported a suspicious email as a potential phishing attempt. The Goodcorp SOC investigated and found that the email had indeed been sent from a foreign IP address, pretending to be from suρρort@elastic.com. The Goodcorp SOC suspects that we may have been targeted in a phishing campaign that used display name impersonation tactics to create the impression of a trustworthy and legitimate sender. These tactics are designed to trick recipients into clicking on malicious links embedded in the email, which can be used for various malicious purposes. Our investigation of the sample we managed to catch through our user reporting system revealed multiple vectors for attacking our network and stealing user credentials. Furthermore, this campaign employs social engineering tactics that can affect a broad range of demographics. Given this, we recommend conducting further investigations of network logs to identify any other traffic associated with the known malicious IP addresses, as it is possible that other users on our network have been targeted with similar phishing attacks, and because local command and control for the attack has not yet been identified.